.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" $Id: rdfgen.1,v 1.8 2005/01/17 08:33:42 christht Exp $
.\" Copyright (c) Trustix AS 2001, 2002, 2003
.TH "RDFGEN" "1" "Jan 17 2005" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
rdfgen \- Resource Description Framework GENerator for SWUP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.IP rdfgen 
[\-q | \-\-quiet]
[\-b ]
[\-C ]
[\-S ]
[\-o <dir>] 
[\-L <URI>]
[\-k <keyid>]
[\-P <filename>]
[\-g <homedir>]
[files/directories [...]]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B rdfgen
\- generate database files in rdf/xml format to work with the txpi or
swup software upgrading tool.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.IP "\-C"
Do not compress files.
.IP "\-L"
Link against remote repository given by <URI>.  URI must end with a trailing
"/" and determins where to find resources.rdf ( or resourcelist.rdf ) and
filelist. http:// https:// and ftp:// are supported protocols.
.IP "\-P <filename>"
Read the gpg key password from given <filename>
.IP "\-S"
Sign rdfs. Signing is needed for swup to work, however, time is saved when
skipping this, and signatures can be generated manually using gnupg or 
equivalent tool, when a valid repository has been generated.
.IP "\-b"
Backward compatible mode. Generates a repository that is supported by both 
new and old versions of swup. Generates a lot of small files which are signed,
so it takes quite some time to execute.
.IP "\-g <homedir>"
Use a specified gpg homedir instead of the default $HOME/.gnupg,
given as a <directory>. Needed when run in a cron job.
.IP "\-h | \-\-help"
Print brief usage information.
.IP "\-k <keyid>"
Sign all rpms and all created files with given <keyid>, needed when signing
files.
.IP "\-o <dir>"
Relative path to directory to which database files should be written. 
Default is "./rdfs". Path should be as short as possible, and thus contained
within the active root of the service providing the protocol of choice, 
like http or ftp.
.IP "\-q, \-\-quiet"
Print as little as possible.
.IP "\-s <dir>"
Place the signatures for the rpms in this directory. Must be relative in the 
same was as with 
.I"\-o"
Useful when creating rdf repository for a remote repository of rpms.
.IP "\-v, \-\-version"
Print version and copyright information.
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.I rdfgen
will write messages to stdout and stderr. Upon completion a standard
exit code is returned to the calling shell. rdfgen returns 0 for a
succesfull execution and 1 for failure.
.SH "AUTHORS"
Olaf Trygve Berglihn,
Hans Almåsbakk,
Christian H. Toldnes,
Tor Hveem,
