.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" $Id: swup.5,v 1.7 2004/06/22 12:46:22 christht Exp $
.\" Copyright (c) Trustix AS 2000 - 2003
.TH SWUP 5 "Jun 22, 2004"
.SH NAME
swup \- format of the configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B swup.conf
is a configuration file for the swup program.
.SH FILE FORMAT
.PP
The configuration file consists of `name = value' and section entries
with continuations in the style of RFC 822. Sections are specified by
section name, and delimited by curly braces. Sections contain `name =
value' entries. Lines begining with a hash, "#", will be ignored. The
"#"-symbol can not be used for comments on a line with a variable
definition. Example:

option = value

section {
  option1 = value
  option2 = value
  }
.SH REGEXP SYNTAX
The regexp syntax is similar to what egrep use. See 
.B "grep(1)"
.SH VARIABLES
.IP gnupgdir
where gnupg public keyring and such is found. Default is
/etc/swup/gnupg
.IP save_to
directory in were a copy of all downloaded software packages should be
saved. If variable is empty or undefined, a copies will not be saved.
.IP cachedir
directory to which downloaded files are stored.
.IP tmpdir
directory to which files are stored temporarily under the download
process.
.IP "auto_reboot"
["yes"|"no"] -
If this option is enabled swup will reboot the system after execution if it is
found to be suitable. This is triggered by packages that needs a reboot to be
activated (think kernel) are updated. Such packages must conflict with
"swup_auto-reboot". Swup reboots the system after all transactions are
completed.  Default is "no".
.IP "reboot_delay"
[0-9]* -
Minutes to delay the trigged reboot. Default is 5.
.IP "interactive_logged"
["yes"|"no"] -
Write to logfile if session is run from a tty. Default is "yes".
.IP "local_first"
["yes"|"no"] -
This option forces swup to depend more heavily on the local rpm database than
on the remote repository. This is the way resource resolving used to be done in
older versions and is a bit faster than the new layout, but does not handle
package conflicts very well. The new algorithm will keep your system more in
sync with the remote repository. The default value is "no".
.IP "flush_installed"
["yes"|"no"] -
This options decides if swup should erase the rpm file in swup's cache after successfull installation of that rpm. The default value is "yes".
.IP sites
Section that provides information about where to get information about
software. A sites section is specified by

site {
  class = <unsigned int>
  location = <URI>
  regexp = <regular expression>
  }
.RS
.PP
.I class 
- an unsigned integer specifying what class the site has. 0 is the
greatest class, with increasing numbers having less priority. Two
sites can have the same class, but only the first one that works in
that class will be used, i.e. sites with same class can be alternates.
.PP
.PP
.I enabled 
["yes"|"no"] - if "no" is specified, swup will ignore this site.
.PP
.I location
- the uniformed resource identifier to the file in which
SPI-information can be found. Normally that would a file called
\'latest.rdf\'.
- For HTTP and HTTPS authentication the uri should be in the form of 
  'username:password@protocol://machine/path/file'
.PP
.I regexp
- the regular expression of which packages at the site that are
allowed to be used for install or upgrades. See "REGEXP SYNTAX" above.
.RE
.IP "exclude/include rules"
Rules that control which packages can be upgraded. The rules are
regular expressions and are used as search rules. I.e. a rule
"kernel" will match the string
`kernel', where as "kernel-.*2\\.2\\.12" will match both
`kernel-source-2.2.12-20', `kernel-headers-2.2.12-20' and
`kernel-2.2.12-20'.
.RS
.PP
An exclude rule has higher precidence than an include rule. See "REGEXP SYNTAX"
above for the syntax of the rules.
.RS
.PP
.I exclude_pkg_regexp
- deny upgrade of all packages whose name contains a substring that
will match regexp.
.PP
.I include_pkg_regexp
- allow upgrade of all packages whose name contains a substring that
will match regexp.
.RE
.PP
These rules may be ignored by using the
.I --ignore-filter
option.
.SH FILES
.I /etc/swup/swup.conf
.RS
System wide configuration file for swup.
.I $HOME/.swup/conf/swup.conf
User specific configuration file for swup (non-root only).
.RE
.SH AUTHORS
Olaf Trygve Berglihn,
Hans Almåsbakk,
Christian H. Toldnes,
Tor Hveem
