.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" $Id: swup.1,v 1.25 2005/06/23 12:20:52 christht Exp $
.\" Copyright (c) Trustix AS 2001 - 2003
.TH "SWUP" "1" "Nov 22, 2004" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
swup \- SoftWare UPdater
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B swup <operation> [options] [args]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B swup
is short for ``Software Updater''. It is an advanced tool for installing, and
upgrading software packages independent of packaging format. It resolves
dependencies between the packages, and provides extensive functionality for
querying this dependency information. It is typically a tool used by the system
administrator, but can run automatically via a cron or at daemon, and the query
functionality is also available for normal users. It support both HTTP and
HTTPS protocols with or without user / password authentication, in addition to
anonymous FTP, all used for efficient transfer of dependency data and software
packages between the remote repository and the local machine. It also supports
both transparent and nontransparent HTTP and FTP proxy.
.SH "OPERATIONS"
.IP "\-\-install"
Install modus. Takes one (or several) argument(s),
.I package
, which is the name of the package(s) to install. The name does not include
version information. E.g. vim, and not vim\-5.6\-3tr.i586.rpm. Package arguments
can be regular expressions.
.IP "\-\-upgrade"
Upgrade modus. Takes one (or several) argument(s),
.I package
, which is the name of the package(s) to upgrade. The name does not include
version information. E.g. vim, and not vim\-5.6\-3tr.i586.rpm. Package arguments
can be regular expressions.
.IP "\-\-remove"
Remove modus. Takes one (or several) argument(s),
.I package
, which is the name of the package(s) to remove. The operation works recursive,
and removes all packages that directly or indirectly depends upon the
package(s) given as input. The name does not include version information. E.g.
vim, and not vim\-5.6\-3tr.i586.rpm.
.IP "\-\-list\-latest"
List all packages available from remote repositories.
.IP "\-\-list\-new"
Same as
.I "\-\-list\-latest"
but only list packages not already installed.
.IP "\-\-list\-alien"
List installed packages that are not available in any of the configured 
repositories.
.IP "\-\-list\-downgrade"
List installed packages that have a higher version than the remotely available 
alternative.
.IP "\-\-list\-upgrade"
List installed packages that have a lower version than the remotely available
alternative.
.IP "\-\-search\-package"
List all available package(s) whose name matches a given pattern. This 
.I pattern
argument can be a regular expression.
.IP "\-\-search\-resource"
List all available resource(s) whose name matches a given pattern. This 
.I pattern
argument can be a regular expression.
.IP "\-\-search\-file"
List all files matching a given pattern, prefixed by the package that owns the
file. This
.I pattern
argument can be a regular expression.
.IP "\-\-describe"
Show a detailed description of a package provided by one or more of the 
repositories. Takes one argument,
.I package
, which is the name of the package to describe. The name does not include 
version information. E.g. vim, and not vim-5.6-3tr.i586.rpm.
.IP "\-\-what-provides"
Show a list of packages in the current configured repositories that provides 
the given resource. Takes one argument,
.I resourcename
, which is the name of the resource to look up. Example,
--what-provides /bin/sh should return 'bash'.
.IP "\-\-import\-key"
Import a gpg public key. Takes one argument, 
.I filename
, which is a file containing one (or several) gpg public key(s) to be 
imported to the internal gpg keyring. Swup uses these public keys to 
verify the integrity of the individual packages and resource data framework
(rdf) files.
.IP "\-\-delete\-key"
Deletes a key from the swup keyring. Takes one argument,
.I "key id"
.IP "\-\-list\-keys"
List the public keys in the gpg keyring which we trust for verifying 
information integrity.
.IP "\-\-help"
Print brief usage information.
.IP "\-\-version"
Print version and copyright information.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.IP "\-\-poll\-only"
Used together with
.I "\-\-install"
or
.I "\-\-upgrade"
this option will print the result of the dependency resolving process, but 
will not try to download, install or upgrade any packages.
.IP "\-\-ignore\-filter"
This will ignore the 
.I exclude 
and
.I include
statements in the config file, and thereby treat all packages as equals.
.IP "\-\-force"
Force to continue in spite of warnings. Currently enforces operation on 
warnings:
.B "Removing package 'swup' not permitted"
and
.B "Manual upgrade required"

.IP "\-\-ignore\-manual\-upgrade"
Obsoleted by
.I \-\-force
.IP "\-\-package\-file file"
Define a text file to read package names from instead of entering them 
directly on the command line, package names are separated by newline.
.IP "\-\-download\-only"
Run as usual, download packages, but do not install.
.IP "\-\-download\-first"
First download packages, then install.
.IP "\-\-stage"
Run in stage mode. This splits swup execution into stages. It enables swup to
run as backend to installers, including changing installation media if needed.
Implies
.I \-\-download\-first
.IP "\-\-save\-to dir"
Save a copy of all downloaded software packages to dir.
.IP "\-\-config\-file file"
Use the specified 
.I config\-file
instead of
.I /etc/swup/swup.conf
File should not contain non\-alphanumeric characters.
.IP "\-\-config\-option option"
Use the specified configuration option to override options in config file or
hard coded defaults. (Not implemented yet) 
.IP "\-\-repository\-URI URI"
Use Uniform Resource Allocator to file that contains a list of latest
packages.  This will override the list of default URIs in
configuration file. Protocols
.I file,
.I http,
.I https,
and
.I ftp
are supported. One or several URIs may be submitted, first URI takes precedence
over the next URI.
.IP "\-\-root dir"
Use
.I dir
as rpm root directory when doing any rpm opertion. (Similar to rpm --root)
\.Default is 
.I /
.IP "\-\-gnupg\-dir dir"
Use
.I dir
as directory where Gnu Privacy Guard files are stored, instead of the
default
.I /etc/swup/gnupg/
.IP "\-\-verbose"
Write somewhat more verbose messages to stdout.
.IP "\-\-notty"
Run as if stdout is not a tty. Overrides verbose.
.IP "\-\-quiet"
Don't write status messages to stdout. Overrides \-\-verbose.
.IP "\-\-silent"
Be quiet and do not write any messages other than errors. Overrides
\-\-verbose and \-\-quiet.
.SH "DEBUG OPERATIONS"
.IP "\-\-flush\-cache"
Empty swup cache. This will additionally delete the rdf\-files, which are 
normally kept. If you don't experience any problems with the built in 
flush cache support, there are no reason for ever using this operation.
.IP "\-\-remove\-lock"
Remove the lockfile if found. This is normally not needed, as the lockfile
is removed after each run, successful or not.
.SH "DEBUG OPTIONS"
.IP "\-\-ignore\-lock"
Do not check/set/remove lockfile. (For debugging)
.SH "REGULAR EXPRESSIONS"
Python provides a rich regular expression syntax, and uses a traditional NFA
match engine. SWUP uses a subset of this syntax. Most notably swup does not
treat
.B +
as a control character, but rather like a normal character. To emulate the 
behaviour of
.B +
one may follow this scheme:
.IP "fo+ = foo*"
Regular expressions must either be padded with backslash characters or 
encapsulated in single quotes.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.I http_proxy
Defined host (and optionally port number) of the http proxy, example: 
"http://proxy.example.com:3128/"
.I ftp_proxy
Defined host (and optionally port number) of the ftp proxy
.SH "FILES"
.I /etc/swup/swup.conf
.RS
System wide configuration file for swup.
See
.BR swup(5)
for more details.
.RE
.I /etc/swup/gnupg
.RS
Directory where Gnu Privacy Guard files are stored.
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.I swup
will write messages to stdout and stderr. Upon completion a standard
exit code is returned to the calling shell. swup returns 0 for a
succesfull execution, 1 for general error and 2 for command line
syntax error.
.SH "AUTHORS"
Olaf Trygve Berglihn,
Hans Almåsbakk,
Christian H. Toldnes,
and Tor Hveem


